docs: fully featured project (#9208)
dagster-io/dagster: docs/content/guides/dagster/example_project.mdx

---
title: Fully Featured Project  | Dagster

> description: This guide walk through a fully featured Dagster project that uses many of Dagster's features.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: This guide walks through a fully featured Dagster project that uses many of Dagster's features.
```

[Software-defined assets](/concepts/assets/software-defined-assets) - An asset is a software object that models a data asset. The prototypical example is a table in a database or a file in cloud storage.

This example contains [three asset group](https://github.com/dagster-io/dagster/blob/master/examples/project_fully_featured/project_fully_featured/assets/\__init\_\_.py):

<Image
alt="Global Asset Lineage"
src="/images/guides/fully-featured-project/global-asset-lineage.png"
width={4064}
height={2488}
/>

- [`core`](https://github.com/dagster-io/dagster/tree/master/examples/project_fully_featured/project_fully_featured/assets/core): Contains data sets of activity on Hacker News, fetched from the [Hacker News API](https://github.com/HackerNews/API). These are partitioned by hour and updated every hour.

- [`recommender`](https://github.com/dagster-io/dagster/tree/master/examples/project_fully_featured/project_fully_featured/assets/recommender): A machine learning model that recommends stories to specific users based on their comment history, as well as the features and training set used to fit that model. These are dropped and recreated whenever the core assets receive updates.

> - [`activity_analytics`](https://github.com/dagster-io/dagster/tree/master/examples/project_fully_featured/project_fully_featured/assets/activity_analytics): Aggregate statistics computed about Hacker News activity. dbt models and a Python model that depends on them. These are dropped and recreated whenever the core assets receive updates.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [`activity_analytics`](https://github.com/dagster-io/dagster/tree/master/examples/project_fully_featured/project_fully_featured/assets/activity_analytics): Aggregate statistics computed about Hacker News activity represented by dbt models and a Python model that depends on them. These are dropped and recreated whenever the core assets receive updates.
```

### Varying connections or I/O without changing your DAG

[Resources](/concepts/resources) - A resource is an object that models a connection to a (typically) external service. Resources can be shared between assets, and different implementations of resources can be used depending on the environment. In this example, we built [multiple Hacker News API resources](https://github.com/dagster-io/dagster/blob/master/examples/project_fully_featured/project_fully_featured/resources/hn_resource.py), all of which have the same interface but different implementations:

- `HNAPIClient` interacts with the real Hacker News API and gets the full data set, which will be used in production.

> - `HNAPISubsampleClient` talks to the real API but subsample the data, which is much faster than the normal implementation and is great for demoing purposes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `HNAPISubsampleClient` talks to the real API but subsamples the data, which is much faster than the normal implementation and is great for demoing purposes.
```

- `HNSnapshotClient` reads from a local snapshot, which is useful for unit testing or environments where the connection isn't available.

The way we model resources helps separate the business logic in code from environments, e.g. you can easily switch resources without changing your pipeline code.

[I/O managers](/concepts/io-management/io-managers) - An I/O manager is a special kind of resource that handles storing and loading assets. This example includes [a wide range of I/O managers](https://github.com/dagster-io/dagster/tree/master/examples/project_fully_featured/project_fully_featured/resources) such as:

> - [`DuckDBPartitionedParquetIOManager`](https://github.com/dagster-io/dagster/blob/master/examples/project_fully_featured/project_fully_featured/resources/duckdb_parquet_io_manager.py): It can interact with Spark and dbt without any long-running process. It minimizes setup difficulty and is useful for local development.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [`DuckDBPartitionedParquetIOManager`](https://github.com/dagster-io/dagster/blob/master/examples/project_fully_featured/project_fully_featured/resources/duckdb_parquet_io_manager.py) interacts with Spark and dbt without any long-running process. It minimizes setup difficulty and is useful for local development.
```
this flows better imo, but either way is totally fine

> - [`SnowflakeIOManager`](https://github.com/dagster-io/dagster/blob/master/examples/project_fully_featured/project_fully_featured/resources/snowflake_io_manager.py): It handles outputs that are either Spark or Pandas DataFrames and write data to a Snowflake table specified by metadata on the relevant <PyObject object="Out" />. The metadata is helpful for observability, especially in production.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [`SnowflakeIOManager`](https://github.com/dagster-io/dagster/blob/master/examples/project_fully_featured/project_fully_featured/resources/snowflake_io_manager.py) handles outputs that are either Spark or Pandas DataFrames and write data to a Snowflake table specified by metadata on the relevant <PyObject object="Out" />. The metadata is helpful for observability, especially in production.
```
same as above

- [Testing I/O managers](https://github.com/dagster-io/dagster/tree/master/examples/project_fully_featured/project_fully_featured_tests/test_resources) by mocking the I/O and constructing <PyObject object="OutputContext" /> and <PyObject object="InputContext" /> with the mocks. Check out [Testing an IO manager](/io-managers#testing-an-io-manager) to learn more.

### Environments

This example is meant to be loaded from three deployments:

- A production deployment, which stores assets in S3 and Snowflake.
- A staging deployment, which stores assets in S3 and Snowflake, under a different key and database.
- A local deployment, which stores assets in the local filesystem and DuckDB.

By default, it will load for the local deployment. You can toggle deployments by setting the `DAGSTER_DEPLOYMENT` env var to `prod` or `staging`.

## Integrating other tools

Beyond leveraging Dagster core concepts, this project also uses several dagster integration libraries:

- [dagster_dbt](/\_apidocs/libraries/dagster-dbt)

>   - Dagster orchestrates dbt alongside other tools, so you can combine dbt with Python, Spark, etc. in a single workflow. This exapmle includes a standalone [`dbt_project`](https://github.com/dagster-io/dagster/tree/master/examples/project_fully_featured/dbt_project), and load dbt models from an existing dbt `manifest.json` file in the dbt project to Dagster assets. It is useful for larger dbt projects as you may not want to recompile the entire dbt project every time you load the Dagster project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Dagster orchestrates dbt alongside other tools, so you can combine dbt with Python, Spark, etc. in a single workflow. This example includes a standalone [`dbt_project`](https://github.com/dagster-io/dagster/tree/master/examples/project_fully_featured/dbt_project), and loads dbt models from an existing dbt `manifest.json` file in the dbt project to Dagster assets. It is useful for larger dbt projects as you may not want to recompile the entire dbt project every time you load the Dagster project.
```

  - Check out [Using dbt with Dagster](/integrations/dbt) for more recommendations.

- [dagster_aws](/\_apidocs/libraries/dagster-aws)

  - Dagster provides utilities for interfacing with AWS services, including S3, ECS, Redshift, EMR, etc.

- [dagster_slack](/\_apidocs/libraries/dagster-slack)

>   - We provide out-of-box support for messaging a given Slack channel. Dagster also comes with a resource for connecting to Slack. Resources are useful for interacting with Slack, as you may want to send messages in production but mock the Slack resource while testing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Dagster provides out-of-the-box support for messaging a given Slack channel, via a resource that connects to Slack. Resources are useful for interacting with Slack, as you may want to send messages in production but mock the Slack resource while testing.
```

- [dagster_pyspark](/\_apidocs/libraries/dagster-pyspark)

  - This project builds a [`PartitionedParquetIOManager`](https://github.com/dagster-io/dagster/blob/master/examples/project_fully_featured/project_fully_featured/resources/parquet_io_manager.py) that can take a PySpark DataFrame and store it in Parquet at the given path. It uses <PyObject module="dagster_pyspark" object="pyspark_resource" /> to access to a PySpark SparkSession for executing PySpark code within Dagster.
  - Besides that, Dagster ops also can perform computations using Spark. Visit [Using Dagster with Spark](/integrations/spark) to learn more.

## Conclusion

> Lastly, as time goes on, this guide will be kept up to date, taking advantage of new Dagster features and learnings from the community. If you have anything you'd like to add, or like to see an example of, don't hesitate to reach out!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As time goes on, this guide will be kept up to date, taking advantage of new Dagster features and learnings from the community. If you have anything you'd like to add, or an additional example you'd like to see, don't hesitate to reach out!
```
this reads better to me, but also good to keep as is
